>> Jerome Hardaway: We're
going to move straight into
Strategic Repository Pinning.
So the importance of repository pinning
for the job search is pretty simple.
You want to put the projects that
showcase your strengths first,
and you wanna make it easy.
The whole point of the job search is for
you to make it easy for
you to be the top candidate.
I think that's how people don't
really think about the job search.
You're not trying to get a job,
you're trying to be the obvious choice for
the job.
You wanna be the top candidate.
You wanna be the person
with the top potential.
That's what you want.
I call it front-loading, where I put so
much information out there
in front of the user,
which is the hiring manager and
the technical people,
that everything else kinda feels
like a formality for them.
That's what I want.
I want that feeling from them
that I'm already on the team.
That's my job.
So I treat it like I'm in,
I've already going through the interview
process before them, right?
So for jobs that I want,
I'm putting the repositories and
things of that nature up there that
it's already gonna help me win, right?
So versus, remember that key projects,
right-handed profile.
But my pin projects, I have similar
projects that are just there.
There's also my key projects and
I'm showcasing,
it gives a little high level
overview with these pins, right?
They see what's the primary
language in there, right?
So they know this one's TypeScript,
this one was in my last course,
things of that nature, and
how many stars they have, right?
So they're able to go into and
start looking into these projects.
Now, this one, when you type into it,
you see that I've been working on it,
everybody's been working on it.
How many contributors?
This is the one that I have
my troops contribute to,
and I have that ReadMe filled out.
I have the badges of what it is,
which NPM, which version of.
Noted is license, contributions,
welcome, what is powered by Vercel.
I have what it is,
the ReadMe is nice and clear.
Every ReadMe on my pinning repositories
is gonna be nice and clear.
And have showcased how to run it and
what's the purpose for it.
I'm never gonna have ugly ReadMe on
any project that I'm gonna showcase.
That is a no-no for
me cuz it's all down here from there.
There's a great book on design
called Don't Make Me Think,
that you should take that type of
approach with everything that you do.
My job is not to make the person that I
wanna make money with think about if I'm
a good designer.
Yeah, of course, it's a easy decision.
Yes, pay the guy.
That's what you want, right?
So that's what I'm doing.
I show them what's under the hood,
talking about the architecture,
say about what my mission is,
how to get started.
The prerequisites of how to run this
application, how to get up and running,
how to start within,
how to use dev container or Docker.
Now, that was one thing that I have
learned over the course of the past
year is, a superpower people, they love
that opportunity to be able to go and
use Docker and dev container and
not have to download all the other
things that you have in your repo,
put it on their machine locally.
So when they download the repo and
then they clone your repo and
it's like, and their VS Code, the whole,
if you wanna run it with Docker shows up,
they're like, wow that's awesome.
So containerizing your apps,
that is something I definitely recommend.
It makes it friendly and they, like I
said, they absolutely, especially for
juniors, they love seeing
that you thought about that.
That showcases you're behind thinking
about the user experience on DevOps and
a more infrastructure thought process.
So they eat that up.
>> Jerome Hardaway: But I have that.
Showcase, once again, showcase some steps
where to open, have my contribution,
guidelines, roadmap, license, they see all
these things of how I'm thinking, right?
Have this license, I have this roadmap.
I've how to contribute,
I have all these things in place so
that the user that show showcases,
okay, this is a project.
This is something that he doesn't do for
his day job, but this is pretty robust for
a project that someone
doesn't do on a day job.
Then when I talk about it and
you're like, I bring up the metrics and
the numbers and I bring up how
many people hit the website and
how many views,
things hit in all my analytics.
I've took a playbook of page out
the Frontend Masters book of using
the transformations from my images to
see how many times people are hitting
the website and things like that, based
upon the transformation, stuff like that.
Because markets, and
is very big against Google Analytics.
So I was like, okay,
that's a cool idea, go from there.
So that's another thing you can always
learn from people you talk to, right?
And of course, I wanna make sure you
look at these technologies right now
as a software engineer
that's focusing on frontend.
These right now are the most community
popular technologies that are stable,
right?
Those top three, Next.js,
Tailwind, Playwright,
those are things that are getting
more popular in the industry.
That are, if you know,
people are gonna assume that you know
other things as well,
that you're adept in other things.
It's like, that's why they say yes.
It's like how when Angular first hit,
people assume that you knew React,
the library, because you understood
Angular, the framework, or
that you could understand it, right?
Being able to work with
something as robust as Next.js,
I understand that you're focusing
on these tools that are for
productivity and E to E, right?
Playwright is the ED testing suite.
When they see that, they're like,
that showcases that's a code,
that's an indicator, a signal to people.
They're like, hey,
I am preparing, or I am ready for
more mature products and projects, right?
That is how the user sees that, right?
That's how developers see that
when they see technology.
You have to think that developers
are very communal, right?
So if you're in a community and, for
instance, in the Java community and
someone sees these things,
they see Tailwind, they see Next.js, they
see Playwright, they're gonna assume that
you're accustomed to more modern stack.
You are focusing on things
that the community is
working on or
is on fire about as well, right?
And of course, TypeScript,
I'm not gonna lie,
I was a big outlier about
learning TypeScript.
But the harsh reality is that if you're
gonna do React on any app that's
making money out there,
a lot of times out of ten,
I'm gonna use some TypeScript on the
frontend, or Angular in this TypeScript.
I think people who use view now
also use some TypeScript, but
I know Angular and
React is on enterprise side.
You're definitely using TypeScript.
So if you learn JavaScript,
the minute you move into a framework,
you have to learn TypeScript.
That's just, if you wanna make money,
gotta learn TypeScript.
If you wanna get a job as a frontend
developer, and not know TypeScript,
you're gonna have a very hard journey.
You need to go ahead.
That's a mandatory skill now.
It went from a nice to have in 2017
to a fundamental skill now in 2024.
Going back to here,
I keep my contributions bar open so
people see how much I can contribute,
as well as what I've contributed to and
all the repos that I'm going over and
under, right?
So this builds a story of sorts, right?
With a pinning rep repositories,
they can go into, they can go and
look into more things.
When they see, this one has a,
cuz that's exactly what they're gonna do.
They're gonna go and look at a thing that
has 111 stars and see what that's about.
Or they're gonna go and
see this thing and they're be like, okay,
this has TypeScript, it has code on it.
What is this about?
And then that is how, the story, that's
how I can control the flow of my story.
My story is controlling the flow of
the legitimacy of the work I do.
So I wanna showcase, hey, these
are the things I've built for veterans.
This is what we're doing
on a virtual code.
Come over here, see this code, see this
coursework, see the things we're building.
Go here for you and be like, hey,
here's the tools and toys and
language I'm building, here's the products
that I have pushed out into the web.
Here are the people that are using it,
here's how I'm using it, and
you should definitely
go check out this code.